this is Michael oral of mobile burn comm
and today I have with me the blackberry
curve 8520 a new low-cost blackberry
curve for t-mobile USA it's also the
first device to come from rim that
sports the optical trackpad
it's a optical joystick kind of thing
think of it as an optical mouse that's
been turned upside down so used for
navigation replaces the trackball which
sometimes can get you know caked with
dust or you know suntan lotion in the
summertime it doesn't work nearly as
well as it should the optical trackpad
here won't have that problem but perhaps
a little less easy to control although
there are settings for sensitivity take
a look at the rest of the physical
design of the device first though
on the left-hand edge you can see we
have a three-and-a-half millimeter audio
headphone port there's a microUSB
connector for power and data and it's a
little hard to see here but there's a
bump that sticks out here and that's the
left user control Balam user
configurable button defaults to voice
tiling on the back of the phone two
megapixel fixed-focus camera this is the
frost color scheme it's kind of a nice
blue on the right-hand edge two more
bumps here for volume control and
another user configurable button
defaults to the camera not too much to
see on the bottom other than the hole
for the microphone on the top of the
device that we do have some changes
though instead of having just the mute
button and a lock button there's no lock
button now but we have the mute button
can be used also for starting and
stopping the music player and there are
previous and next track buttons so we'll
just start up the music player
I'll play when you skip the next crack
or the next track like that it's pretty
easy to access the lack of a lock button
is probably mitigated a bit by the fact
that the call end and send keys as well
as the menu and escape keys are now
flush mounted they're not touch
sensitive by any stretch there's still a
tactile click to them but they don't
stick out so they're less likely to be
pressed when they're in your pocket or
purse or something like that pulling a
little tighter take a look at the
trackpad you can see it's just a little
square piece of dark colored plastic
that senses your fingers and moves back
and forth across it right now I have the
audible click turned on just for the
purposes of the video but it can be
disabled and is disabled by default the
display it's a QVGA resolution display
so it's a quite a downgrade from the
better than half VGA resolution display
it's on the curve 8900 but on the 8520
is quite a bit cheaper at 129 dollars
nice curve style QWERTY keyboard on it
the keys have a really good feel they're
laid out laid out quite well spacings
good everything's really really nice
except for backlighting backlighting and
in general across the bottom half the
device is fairly poor it's inconsistent
some of the keys they're hard to read
not so hard in a really truly dark room
but when you're in middle lighting where
things are just getting kind of dim it
can be quite difficult to read some of
the letters and numbers and symbols that
are on the keys backlighting on these
buttons up across the top is also
inconsistent kind of shows through with
points when it shouldn't
other than that though the keyboard
works really well and has a very great
feel and you know people had like
existing curved models are really gonna
like this one
one last thing I want to point out on
the 8520 curve is that like on the 8900
series the the rear cover is a weak
point when it comes to build quality
it's not as loose as on the 8900 but
it's very creaky it's just really bad
rim really has to pay attention to this
more I understand it's a relatively
low-cost device but there's got to be a
better way to do it than something like
this this is the 85 20s home screen
which we've seen already the top row of
the
menu shows up along the bottom of a home
screen as quick access icons you can see
they match up with what we see here at
the top so if we were to rearrange
something and I say put the my faves
icon up on the top row it'll now show up
on the home screen as well
right over here turn on the my fav
support and you can scroll through your
context we don't have any configured you
also notice when I scroll to the top it
goes to this little profile access menu
common to most blackberries this version
this device is running version 4.6.1
this is the web browser on the 8520 and
you can see it does a fairly good job of
rendering the mobile bar and website but
the QVGA display shows its limitations
when you start zooming in the text
doesn't always come across very crisp
you can see it's very jagged looking
kind of depends on the font and the font
size being used by the site so even when
we zoom in tighter here it's still kind
of messy not exactly sure what's going
on there but the optical mouse control
works pretty well would work better if I
had this sounds turned off you can see
it kind of buzzes a lot while you're
doing it slows it down a bit
speeds are pretty decent at the moment
on the device because we're using a
Wi-Fi connection this is a um a capable
device so works with t-mobile's hotspot
at home service so right now all of our
voice and data communications are going
through our local Wi-Fi router so you
can see things come up pretty nicely
no flash support see ads missing and
things like that but not a bad browser
overall